Thanks to Casey for a really thougtful, and thought-provoking, paper. I'll make one small point about the setup, and then run through some thought experiments that I think backup Casey's general picture.

The small point is that you need a *strong* version of the mere-difference view to get the puzzle off the ground. Here's a simple reason to fear becoming disabled: disabled people are treated awfully in this society. Barnes's mere-difference view says that being disabled wouldn't be an all-things-considered bad if society weren't so awful. To really get the puzzle going, you need that it isn't an all-things-considered bad right now. Maybe some of the testimony from disabled people can support that claim, but it's a *really* strong claim.

Onto the thought experiments. Sense modalities tend to give you two really big things: information and aesthetic value (or disvalue). The information is limited in many respects, but within those limitations it is detailed and fast. The possible kinds of aesthetic value, and disvalue, are much more diverse. Casey also mentions that kinds of perception ground abilities, but I tend to think that's downstream of the information they provide.

I think to the extent there is a rational fear of losing a sense, it's much more to do with the asthetics than the information. I'm going to motivate this with some much lower stakes examples than the loss of a sense. The stakes will be low enough that using 'fear' may seem rather excessive. I'm going to use 'fear' to encompass any anticipated regret with negative affect, even if either the regret or the affect are rather small.

On the one hand, fear of losing an information source isn't *recalcitrant* in Casey's sense. I might fear the consequences of a newspaper or website that I rely on for information shutting down, but if you convinced me something just as informative would take its place, the fear would go.

There is one complication here. Consider a vase where the information provided by the source can be provided by replacements, but (a) those replacements are slower, and (b) the speed of the information is relevant to things I value doing. Then I might fear the loss. And perhaps that's getting closer to the case fearing loss of ability from loss of sense that Casey talks about.

On the other hand, fear of losing a source of aesthetic pleasure is recalcitrant. Imagine learning that a neighborhood restaurant you've liked for many years is shutting down. The next day, you learn that a restaurant you love but which is too far away to get to very often is moving into the vacated premises. All things considered, this might be a good deal for your welfare. But it could still be something you fear. The pleasures, and the memories, of this particular restaurant, might be something you miss even if the restaurant's closure was all-things-considered good.

This relates to Casey's discussion of how this links to transformative experience. Take two of the experiences most commonly linked with being transformative: migrating, and having a (first) child. In both cases, one might anticipate the change being all-things-considered good. Many people do one or other of these things voluntarily, so presumably they think so. But they might also rationally fear them, because each of them involves serious loss. That those losses might be outweighed by other gains doesn't mean they aren't losses. And those losses can be feared.

Back onto a more trivial example, one can fear an amusement park ride that one is looking forward to going on. The point is that fear is more tied to anticipating that an experience will have negative features, not that it is all-things-considered bad. And even the mere difference view typically agrees that disabilities are a mix of good and bad making characteristics.

I'll end on an autobiographical note. One sense I wouldn't fear losing is smell. There are some smells I'd miss - kitchens full of curry or coffee. But I'm basically a city person at heart, and cities ... don't smell great. The car fumes, the dog poop, the cigarettes, that distinctive tang of underpasses; I could do without it all. There is information in there that I'd somewhat miss, though even there I wouldn't mind not being reminded of some parts. I suspect there's a generalisation here; if the aesthetic value of a sense isn't that great, it's easy to imagine doing without it. It's much harder being able to imagine doing without the things I enjoy *watching* or *listening to*.

Thanks again to Casey for a great paper, and I'm looking forward to the discussion!




