Bolinger's papers "Algorithms and the Individual in Criminal Law" and "Protect, Serve, Predict?" concern the use of predictive algorithms in the criminal justice system.

In "Algorithms", she argues that many of the uses that these algorithms are put to are violations of subject's right to be treated as an individual. She first argues that the right to be treated as an individual is the right to a fair distribution of the benefits and burdens of the rule of law. Then she argues that applying differential treatment to someone on the grounds that other people with the same demographic features as they do have committed crimes is a violation of this fairness requirement. She further argues that predictive algorithms, as they are currently used, are unfair in exactly the same way. This is not an argument against predictive algorithms altogether. She says that they may have social benefits, and not violate this fairness requirement, when the inputs to the algorithms are under the control of the individuals they are applied to, and are transparent. This is an excellent work showing how theoretical reflections on the intuitive requirement that the criminal law should treat people as individuals can lead to strong, but nuanced, policy recommendations.

In "Protect", she looks at a particular use of these algorithms: the use of location based predictions to allocate resources for preventative policing. She argues that this while this could be principle be justly used, in practice it is unlikely to be. A key part of the argument is that the use of these tools should be justifiable to the people in the areas that are targeted. In principle this should be possible; people who live in high crime areas are disproportionately victims of crime, and so could benefit from more intensive policing. But by looking in more detail at the kinds of crimes that are the focus of these projects, often public order crimes, or property crimes whose victims do not live in the area, this is not the actual effect of the use of the algorithms. As with "Algorithms", the paper marshalls an impressive array of theoretical considerations and empirical evidence to conclude that while the uses these algorithms are actually put to are often unjust, they could have a worhwhile role, particularly in policing white collar crime.

In her paper "#BelieveWomen and the Ethics of Belief", Bolinger does an excellent job at teasing apart many distinct things that might be meant by the hashtag #BelieveWomen, and describing a much more interesting and plausible interpretation of the hashtag than had other writers in the popular and scholarly literature. Her argument is centered around a distinction between believing a person, and believing what that person says. She argues that to believe a person requires giving their speech a certain status in inquiry, not closing off inquiry by uncritically accepting the content of what the person says. This allows her to interpret #BelieveWomen in a way that makes it plausible, indeed in a way that makes it true that most people have been believing men all along, and extending this to women would not be incompatible. This is a very nice example of how attention to detail, and in particular attending to the nuances of the relationship between ethics and epistemology, can help clarify messy public debates.

Her paper "What We Own Under Ignorance" argues against a very widespread view about moral responsibility. Most scholars (and most legal systems) say that a person who engages in defensive harm is excused, even if the harm was unnecessary, as long as they had a reasonable belief that the harm was proportionate to the (perceived) threat. Bolinger argues that this picture relies on too individualistic an approach. It doesn't take into account the fact that when we excuse someone who harms in this way, we signal to the community that the beliefs they had were reasonable. This could lead to the victim of the defensive harm, or others demographically similar to them, suffering more harms in the future, because marking the belief that this (kind of) person is dangerous as a reasonable belief could lead to more people holding that belief. Bolinger's view is sure to be controversial, the idea that reasonable belief excuses is very deeply ingrained, but her focus on these structural features poses a well-argued challenge to orthodox opinion.