06-Mar-2026

Dear Author,

Manuscript ID ANALYSIS-2024-521.R2 entitled "Anti-Anti-Desire-As-Belief" which you submitted to  Analysis, has been reviewed.  The comments of the referee(s) are included below.

The referee(s) have recommended publication, but also suggest some revisions to your manuscript.  Therefore, the Editors wish to invite you to respond to the referee’s/referees’ comments and revise your manuscript. (This does not constitute a commitment to publish a revised version.)

To revise your manuscript, log into https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/analysis and enter your Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with Decisions."  Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision."  Your manuscript number has been appended to denote a revision.

You may also click the below link to start the revision process (or continue the process if you have already started your revision) for your manuscript. If you use the below link you will not be required to login to ScholarOne Manuscripts.

*** PLEASE NOTE: This is a two-step process. After clicking on the link, you will be directed to a webpage to confirm. ***

https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/analysis?URL_MASK=9d885e13dc434fcfbae4b36ebb8ce554


You will be unable to make your revisions on the originally submitted version of the manuscript.  Instead, revise your manuscript using a word processing program and save it on your computer.  Please highlight any additions/changes to your manuscript within the document by using bold text. Can you highlight any substantial deletions with strikethrough. Once the revised manuscript is prepared, you can upload it and submit it through your Author Centre.  

When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by the referee(s) in the space provided.  You can use this space to document any changes you make to the original manuscript.  Please be as specific as possible in your response to the referee(s).

You are not obliged to make all the changes suggested: if a change would, in your considered view, diminish the value of the paper, then please say so, and explain why, in your letter explaining the changes made. Your letter will usually be seen by the referee.

IMPORTANT:  Your original files are available to you when you upload your revised manuscript.  Please delete any redundant files before completing the submission.

Your revised manuscript should be uploaded as soon as possible.  If it is not possible for you to submit your revision in two months, we may have to consider your paper as a new submission.

Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to  Analysis and I look forward to receiving your revision.

Sincerely,
Mrs Jodie Elgey
Editorial Assistant
Analysis Editorial Office
analysis@theeditorialhub.com


Referee: 1

Comments to the Author
Still a very intriguing paper! Some of the problems I previously complained
about have been resolved, but I'm afraid the main issue remains: I still don't
understand how we're supposed to get from EDT and CDT to distinctive DAB-like
theses.

This happens on pp.8f. in the current version. Auntie E is here introduced as an
EDTer and Auntie C as a CDTer. Then we are told that for Auntie E, V(x) =
Pr(Gx|X), while for Auntie C, V(x) = Pr^X(Gx), where "X is the proposition that
x is performed and Gx is the proposition that doing x is good".

First a comment on the notation. Why the change of formalism? Earlier, it was
assumed that V applies to propositions, so there is no need to distinguish x
and X. And what's the difference between Gx and X̊? On p.6, we were told that if
A is the proposition that Peter does some action then Å is the proposition that
this action is good. I would find it more perspicuous to write Auntie E's value
formula as V(A) = Pr(Å|A) and Auntie C's as V(A) = Pr^A(Å).

Anyway, the passage on pp.8f. conveys that these value formulas follows from the
respective decision theories. I don't see how they would. Jeffrey's /Logic of
Decision/ says nothing about the credence one should give to propositions about
goodness or desirability. Propositions of the form Gx or Å aren't discussed.
They also don't occur in any of the standard texts on CDT. We'd need an
/argument/ here that DACB follows from EDT, and that the imaging version of DACB
follows from CDT. The previous version of the paper contained some attempts at
such arguments, in this version the point seems to be presupposed.

If one could show that EDT entails DACB and that CDT is incompatible with
Additivity, we wouldn't need the Peter example to raise doubts about Lewis's
anti-DAB proof. We could directly argue that both of the major decision theories
are incompatible with the assumptions in Lewis's proof.

I really think the paper would be stronger if it didn't assume that Auntie E's
and Auntie C's judgements are entailed by the decision theory they endorse. Most
of the paper doesn't require this. The crucial observation is that there are two
intelligible judgements about the Peter case that are demonstrably incompatible
with the conjunction of DAB and Additivity. One of these judgements smells
vaguely of EDT, the other of CDT. Accordingly, the first might be extended to
DACB as a general principle, which intuitively harmonizes with EDT, while the
second might be extended to the imaging version of DACB, which intuitively
harmonizes with CDT. This is worth pointing out, as it shows that the two
judgements might be systematized into nice packages. But I think that's as far
as the arguments of the paper can get us.

Typos:

- p.4: "contradicts our assumption" => "contradicts Possible Dependence".
- p.5: "about someone, call him Peter, might do" => "about what someone..."
- p.6: "that it is desirable/good" => "that this action is desirable/good"?

Associate Editor Comments to the Author:
Please address the remaining concern from referee #1.