This paper has been fairly comprehensively rewritten in light of the (very helpful) comments from the reviewers. The changes are dramatic enough that I don't think going through the reviews line by line would be particularly helpful. Instead I'll bring out some themes that I think came through the reviews, and how I've responded to them.

First, both reviewers thought the argument about overgeneration wasn't working. I've cut it from this paper.

Second, there was a feeling that the paper was too disjointed, almost a concatenation of a few different objections. One of the aims in rewriting it was to make sure there was a more coherent narrative running through it. There were two changes in framing that were most important here. One was to make it clearer just where in Lewis's argument the objections were targeted at, and why it was necessary to target these two spots in particular. The other was to separate out the two characters who represent the two ways of responding to Lewis. But most importantly, this required being more careful at every stage about how the parts were fitting together, and hopefully it reads considerably more smoothly than the first submission.

Third, I'd originally said that the assumptions Lewis makes are *inconsistent*. One of the reviewers pointed out that this wasn't strictly correct - all I'd shown was that they were inconsistent with some other assumptions. That's not the same thing, and I shouldn't talk as if it is. I totally agree, and I've dropped that language. This created much more work, because that language was doing some work in the argument. This led to the fourth, and biggest, concern.

Fourth, the response I was offering was too cheap. Lewis says here is a small set of simple premises, there is a short argument to ~DAB. I said the person who endorses DAB should reject one or other of these premises because there is a short argument, with few extra premises, from DAB to the negation of the premise. And at different points both reviewers effectively said, well of course that's true, that follows from incredibly basic facts about the nature of valid arguments. If this is a good response, there can't be a good and valid argument against a philosophical position.

Again, I think this was a very good objection to the first submission, And the point about inconsistency made it even harder. I had been leaning on the idea that Lewis's premises weren't just unacceptable to the DAB theorist, they were inconsistent so unacceptable to anyone. But I hadn't proven this, and it isn't obviously true. Once I made that change, the objection here became even more pressing.

So in response I've done two things.

One of these is in the setup. Here's how the dialectic goes now. Anyone who endorses anything like DAB has to say something about Newcomb-like problems, like the example involving Peter on page 4. (I don't call this 'Newcomb-like' in the paper, because that turns on some other theoretical commitments that I don't want to defend. But I'm using it here just to set out where the example came from.) This is, so far, an in-house dispute among DAB theorists. Some DAB theorists will take the one-box side, the other the two-box side. But they could have reason to take one or other side before a critic of DAB like Lewis shows up. My first argument then is that whichever side of this dispute one takes, one has a reason to reject one of Lewis's premises. So if a DAB theorist says that they reject Lewis's argument because it relies on a premise they reject because it leads to the wrong answers in Newcomb-like cases, this isn't just bluntly applying contraposition to Lewis's argument. It's giving an independent reason for saying why one rejects that argument.

The other thing I've done, and this is the point of the mostly new sections 3 and 4, is to respond directly to the arguments Lewis gives for the premises that get rejected. 

In section 3 I respond to the argument that going from V(A) = Cr(Å) to V(A) = Cr(Å | A) involves giving up desire as *belief*. Like some other writers, I found the argument Lewis offers at this point very hard to follow. (This is the argument that Hajek at one point suggests had missing text in the printed version, it is so compressed.) After looking back at some letters by Lewis, I think I have a better sense of what the argument is, and I offer three replies to it.

In section 4 I deal with another good point that the reviewers made. (I could have listed this as a fifth thing I'm responding to.) Lewis gives an argument against the position I defend here, claiming it rests on confusing choice-worthiness with desirability. And a reviewer correctly pointed out that I'd blurred this distinction in the original submission. The response in section 4 is that while this distinction is important and useful, and in particular nothing I say here is an objection to how it's used by Joyce, Lewis's use of it here is in tension with his broader project. Lewis wants to say that there is no such thing as rational choice without desire; that's the point of the example about the search committee that leads the first DAB paper. So he can't say, as he does in the second paper, that choice-worthiness and desire completely come apart; that would make a mess of what he says about the psychology of a person actually facing Newcomb's problem.

When I got the first reports, I was pleasantly surprised the editor had decided on revise-and-resubmit. I've certainly seen cases where the reviewers had (between them) fewer critical comments lead to outright reject. But I thought the criticisms did bring up good problems with the original submission. That's why this is so revised; with one section deleted, two sections added, and the rest fairly thoroughly rewritten. I hope it's close enough to count as a revision!