What are philosophical decision theorists trying to do? A simple answer is that they are trying to find the correct decision theory. This invites two more questions. What does it mean to say some decision theory is correct? And why should we care about knowing which one is correct?

I think most decision theorists would endorse some kind of normative answer to these questions. The correct decision theory is the one that agents, or at least a certain kind of agent, should follow. We should figure out what it is so we can advise agents on how to make better decisions.

This paper argues against this normative answer, and in favor of a descriptive answer. The correct decision theory is one that accurately describes what a certain kind of agent will do. Finding the correct answer is useful because it helps us explain certain patterns of behavior, especially in highly social settings.

The descriptive answer might seem obviously false in light of the fact that decision theory is quite clearly about idealised agents. The important point to note here that we use 'idealised' in philosophy (and academia more generally) in two rather distinct ways.^[This ambiguity in the term 'idealised' is also noted in Carr, Greco, and Roussos.] In political philosophy, when people talk about ideal theory, they are talking about some kind of optimum. This sense is clearly normative. But in much of philosophy of science, we talk about ideals in a purely descriptive way. An idealised model need not be better than reality. The ideal gases in the ideal gas model are not better in virtue of having point sized molecules. Size is not a failure that we imagine gases sloughing off. I'm going to argue that the ideal agents in ideal decision theory are more like ideal gases than they are like ideal states.

While this is an ambiguity, you might think that the meanings are not incompatible. The ideal agents in decision theory might be both optima and simplifications. Indeed, I think that in a good sense they are. Still, I'll argue, we should take the simplification sense to be more central. What's important about these idealised agents is that they can play a role in what I'll call strongly reflexive explanations of social phenomena. These are explanations where the agents involved not just realise that the explanation in question correctly describes their situation, but do what they do in part because of this realisation. Such explanations work most smoothly when the explanatory models are not just simplifications of real life, but also involve some kind of optimal behavior.

# A Quick Survey

Go through some decision theories
Go over Basketball
Go over Salesman
Note how weird the pair of answers is.